Knuth_Morris_Pratt_Algorithm/KMP_README.md, before:

﻿# KMP

1. It was invented by Donald Knuth and Vaughan Pratt.
2. It was the first linear time complexity algorithm for string matching which is used to find a pattern in a text.
3. This algorithm compares character by character from left to right.

**Components of KMP**
+ Prefix Table:In this algorithm whenever a mismatch occurs,it uses a preprocessed table known as Prefix Table to skip characters comparison while matching.
+ LPS Table:It stands for Longest proper Prefix which is also suffix.Sometimes prefix table is also known as LPS Table.

## Steps for Creating LPS Table 

1. Define a one dimensional array with the size equal to the length of the Pattern. (LPS[size])
2. Define variables i & j. Set i = 0, j = 1 and LPS[0] = 0.
3. Compare the characters at Pattern[i] and Pattern[j].
4. If both are matched then set LPS[j] = i+1 and increment both i & j values by one. Goto to Step 3.
5. If both are not matched then check the value of variable 'i'. If it is '0' then set LPS[j] = 0 and increment 'j' value by one, if it is not '0' then set i = LPS[i-1]. Goto Step 3.
Step 6- Repeat above steps until all the values of LPS[] are filled. 

### ALGORITHM

**Input**: The main text, and the pattern, which will be searched.

```
Begin

   n := size of text
   
   m := size of pattern
   
   call findPrefix(pattern, m, prefArray)

   while i < n, do
   
      if text[i] = pattern[j], then
      
         increase i and j by 1
         
      if j = m, then
      
         print the location (i-j) as there is the pattern
         
         j := prefArray[j-1]
         
      else if i < n AND pattern[j] ≠ text[i] then
      
         if j ≠ 0 then
         
            j := prefArray[j - 1]
            
         else
         
            increase i by 1
   done
   
   End
```

**Output**: The location where patterns are found.

#### HOW THE KMP ALGORITM WORK

 Let us see an example
Consider the following Text and Pattern
                  Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
                  Pattern:ABCDABD
    LPS[] table for the above pattern is as follows
                  LPS[] is {0,1,2,3,4,5,6}

**Step 1:** Start comparing first character of pattern with first character of Text from left to right
        Text: ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
     Pattern: ABCDABD
     0123456

Here mismatch occured at Pattern[3],so we need to consider LPS[2] value.Since LPS[2] value is '0' we must compare first character in pattern with next character in Text.

**Step 2:** Start comparing first character of pattern with next character of Text.
        Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
     pattern:    ABCDABD
                 0123456
Here mismatch occured at Pattern[6], so we need to consider LPS[5] value.Since LPS[5] value is '2' we compare Pattern[2] character with mismatched character in Text.

**Step 3:** Since LPS value is '2' no need to compare the Pattern[0] and Pattern[1] values
        Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
     Pattern:        ABCDABD
                     0123456
Here mismatch occured at pattern[2],so we need to consider LPS[1] value. Since LPS[1] value is  '0' we must compare first character in Pattern with next character in Text. 

**Step 4:** Compare Pattern[0] with next character in Text
       Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
       pattern:        ABCDABD
                       0123456
Here mismatch occured at Pattern[6],so we need to consider LPS[5] value.Since LPS[5] value is '2' we compare Pattern[2] character with mismatched character in Text.

**Step 5:** Compare Pattern[2] with mismatched character in Text.
       Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
       Pattern:            ABCDABD
                           0123456
Here all the characters of Patterns matched with a substring in Text which is starting from index value 15.
So, we conclude that given Pattern found at index 15 in Text.



##### TIME COMPLEXITY

The time complexity of KMP  is O(n)


###### SEE ALSO

1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/kmp-algorithm-for-pattern-searching/
2. https://www.javatpoint.com/daa-knuth-morris-pratt-algorithm
3. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knuth%E2%80%93Morris%E2%80%93Pratt_algorithm

Commit message:

Adds the required changes in Knuth-Morris Readme

Knuth_Morris_Pratt_Algorithm/KMP_README.md, after:

﻿# Knuth-Morris Pratt Algorithm

1. It was invented by Donald Knuth and Vaughan Pratt.
2. It was the first linear time complexity algorithm for string matching which is used to find a pattern in a text.
3. This algorithm compares character by character from left to right.

**Components of Knuth-Morris Pratt algorithm**
+ Prefix Table:In this algorithm whenever a mismatch occurs,it uses a preprocessed table known as Prefix Table to skip characters comparison while matching.
+ LPS Table:It stands for Longest proper Prefix which is also suffix.Sometimes prefix table is also known as LPS Table.

## Steps for Creating LPS Table 

1. Define a one dimensional array with the size equal to the length of the Pattern. (LPS[size])
2. Define variables i & j. Set i = 0, j = 1 and LPS[0] = 0.
3. Compare the characters at Pattern[i] and Pattern[j].
4. If both are matched then set LPS[j] = i+1 and increment both i & j values by one. Goto to Step 3.
5. If both are not matched then check the value of variable 'i'. If it is '0' then set LPS[j] = 0 and increment 'j' value by one, if it is not '0' then set i = LPS[i-1]. Goto Step 3.
Step 6- Repeat above steps until all the values of LPS[] are filled. 

### ALGORITHM

**Input**: The main text, and the pattern, which will be searched.

```
Begin

   n := size of text
   
   m := size of pattern
   
   call findPrefix(pattern, m, prefArray)

   while i < n, do
   
      if text[i] = pattern[j], then
      
         increase i and j by 1
         
      if j = m, then
      
         print the location (i-j) as there is the pattern
         
         j := prefArray[j-1]
         
      else if i < n AND pattern[j] ≠ text[i] then
      
         if j ≠ 0 then
         
            j := prefArray[j - 1]
            
         else
         
            increase i by 1
   done
   
   End
```

**Output**: The location where patterns are found.

#### How The Knuth-Morris Pratt Algorithm Work?

 Let us see an example
Consider the following Text and Pattern
                  Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
                  Pattern:ABCDABD
    LPS[] table for the above pattern is as follows
                  LPS[] is {0,1,2,3,4,5,6}

**Step 1:** Start comparing first character of pattern with first character of Text from left to right
        Text: ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
     Pattern: ABCDABD
     0123456

Here mismatch occured at Pattern[3],so we need to consider LPS[2] value.Since LPS[2] value is '0' we must compare first character in pattern with next character in Text.

**Step 2:** Start comparing first character of pattern with next character of Text.
        Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
     pattern:    ABCDABD
                 0123456
Here mismatch occured at Pattern[6], so we need to consider LPS[5] value.Since LPS[5] value is '2' we compare Pattern[2] character with mismatched character in Text.

**Step 3:** Since LPS value is '2' no need to compare the Pattern[0] and Pattern[1] values
        Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
     Pattern:        ABCDABD
                     0123456
Here mismatch occured at pattern[2],so we need to consider LPS[1] value. Since LPS[1] value is  '0' we must compare first character in Pattern with next character in Text. 

**Step 4:** Compare Pattern[0] with next character in Text
       Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
       pattern:        ABCDABD
                       0123456
Here mismatch occured at Pattern[6],so we need to consider LPS[5] value.Since LPS[5] value is '2' we compare Pattern[2] character with mismatched character in Text.

**Step 5:** Compare Pattern[2] with mismatched character in Text.
       Text:ABC ABCDAB ABCDABCDABDE
       Pattern:            ABCDABD
                           0123456
Here all the characters of Patterns matched with a substring in Text which is starting from index value 15.
So, we conclude that given Pattern found at index 15 in Text.



##### TIME COMPLEXITY

+ The time complexity of Knuth-Morris Pratt Algorithm is O(n).
+ It also has a space complexity of O (m) because there’s some pre-processing involved.



###### SEE ALSO

1. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/kmp-algorithm-for-pattern-searching/
2. https://www.javatpoint.com/daa-knuth-morris-pratt-algorithm
3. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knuth%E2%80%93Morris%E2%80%93Pratt_algorithm
